Hello. Today I'm here to talk about how to build durable agents using Eve. My name is Matias Gonzalez, I'm a design engineer working at Vercel.

Quick side note from before: I didn't build the Eve framework itself. I do have a lot of experience building agents and using Eve too — I just don't want to take credit for that.

My job is to build interactive experiences using shaders, usually for the public websites of Vercel. And the way I usually build those experiences is by building the agent pipeline that will ship that experience. The reason for this is that I usually want to control exactly the production of the code.

For example, for the Vercel Ship website, we wanted to do a 3D device that had a little agent inside of it that you can trigger with a terminal, and then you can ask that agent to ship little games inside of it. And for the homepage of that website, we shipped a couple of agents that walk around the site. We had a bug where the agents were walking over the content sometimes. So what we ended up doing is shipping a navigation mesh system that gets calculated dynamically, so the agents can follow you around the website and interact with you, but they avoid stepping over certain sections.

All of that work requires a lot of research about workers, about assembly. You need to test a lot of this stuff and also do a lot of research in a short period of time. That is why I focused a lot on shipping the pipeline of agents to do the research in the way that I like to do it, so that I can get better-quality PRs that are well tested by agents already.

If there's something that I learned from doing this, it's that shipping agents is hard. There's a lot of things you need to solve: context compaction, terminals, subagents, and how the main agent will communicate. By the way, what this graph means is that each dot is an agent, and each line is an agent talking to another one. This is swarms of agents working together in order to ship all of this. Handling how the parent agent talks to the other agents, and how it knows the progress, and all of that — that is a lot of work.

But thankfully, Vercel now launched Eve. Eve is also the reason that I'm here today, to talk about this framework. Eve is like the Next.js for agents. It gives us a standard way to build agents — including the evals — in one folder.

The best way to understand Eve is to first try to build an agent without Eve, so that we can see what it would take to assemble everything by ourselves.

First, if I want to build an AI agent, I need to be able to call an AI model. And for different tasks, I usually want different models. I don't want to use the most expensive thinking model for every single task — that's going to be too expensive. And also, different models react differently to different tasks, so I usually prefer to choose certain models. Different providers might have different APIs. So what Vercel did was ship the AI Gateway, which is a unified way to call different model providers using a unified API scheme. If we are working in TypeScript or Python, the easiest way to call the AI Gateway is to just use the AI SDK. It will handle provider request formats, streaming, structured outputs, tool calls. But if we need to provide specific options for a provider, we can also do that, because some providers have particular options that we can enable.

Next up: if I'm building a coding agent, I want my agent to be able to pull a repository and install things, run commands, test its work. And I don't want the agent to be doing that near my production application. I want to give the agent a sandbox — basically give the agent its own computer, so it can do its work and run all of that untrusted code in there. For that, we could use Vercel Sandbox, for example.

Then, in order for my agent to do its work with my data, it needs credentials. It probably needs to pull a repository that's private, go into Linear to read tickets, access Slack. There's two ways to do it. I can either go into all of these providers and create environment variables and give those to my agent — but the scope of that environment variable will probably be too large. So the best way to do this is to actually use Connect. This way, we can issue a short-lived token that can be scoped specifically to the task that the agent needs to do. So I can add credentials to the agent, but they can be as scoped as I define.

And finally, we have an agent on the cloud. It can do everything, but I need to be able to talk to the agent. In order to connect my agent to different providers, I can just use the Chat SDK library, which enables me — with one simple schema — to connect my agents into multiple chat providers. We can connect it to Slack, WhatsApp, GitHub in a really easy and fast way.

Now we have a complete agent working. But what happens when something goes wrong? You will eventually get rate-limited, for example, by a service that you have. Or a tool can fail, a process can restart. Something can go wrong. So to solve this, Vercel shipped Vercel Workflows, which allows us to split a process into smaller steps. Workflow will save the progress after each step, so if something fails at any point, it will restore the progress up until that point and just retry. That way, instead of crashing the entire process, we can try again and resume safely. We also get good observability: on the Vercel dashboard, you can go and see the graph of steps that are running in your application. You can also debug and make sense of what's happening.

And finally, now we do have a durable, reliable agent running. But there's a small problem, and it's that this is a lot of work. This is a lot of primitives that you have to wire in, read the documentation for. It's a lot of setup. And we didn't even get into context compaction or observability — these are just the primitives to make it work.

So instead of repeating this work over and over, what we could do is have a reusable layer. And that reusable layer is Eve. The Eve framework doesn't replace all of the primitives we just saw. It will still use the AI SDK, Gateway, Sandbox, Connect, and everything — but these primitives will already be wired in together, so that every new agent can just start from this working foundation.

And how do I create an agent with Eve? Well, it's just a folder. Every agent will be a folder that we can name. And in that folder, each file will have a specific role.

Let's start with two small files. First, we have the instructions.md. This file is a Markdown file that we can use to describe the job and how the agent should behave — the goal of the agent. And then we can add a TypeScript file to define the configuration, like the model, for example. Together, this is enough to already spin up an agent and interact with it.

But we probably want to have more capabilities so we can do more stuff. And we can just do that by adding more types of files. So if we create a tools folder, for example, and there we add more TypeScript files, we can define tools. A tool is basically a TypeScript function that the agent can execute. We give it a description, so that the agent understands what that tool is for; the input schema, which is basically the object that the agent will need to provide to that tool; and the execute, which is the function that will run when the agent calls that tool. And since we are using this folder structure, the framework will already expose the investigate tool to the agent. There is no wiring that we need to solve. If I want to add more tools, just add more files.

Then we can also add skills. Skills are a set of instructions for a specific task. The difference between a skill and the instructions is that the instructions are always present in the context of the agent, but the skill can be dynamically loaded. Let's say that I have a skill that is for debugging with a browser. The agent can load the skill when it needs to debug with the browser, so that we don't waste a lot of tokens from the beginning if it doesn't need that skill.

Then, as we talked about before, our agent probably needs to access external services with credentials, and we can use connections for that. We can again avoid putting long-lived tokens in environment variables, and instead just define connections that will issue short-lived tokens when our agent needs to access that. In this case, for example, it's connecting to the Linear MCP. And again, the agent will have no access to that credential.

Connections are for the agent reaching out. But we also want ourselves to be able to reach the agent, and that is what channels are for. With channels, basically, we can connect our agent to Slack, Discord, GitHub, so that we can tag our agent and talk to it, so that we can trigger work.

Then, if we want to create subagents, that is super easy. We just create a subagents folder, and inside we put more agents — basically the same structure inside of here.

And finally, tests. We always need tests. So how do we test an agent? And how do we test that it is behaving in the way that I want it to? Well, those are evals. Evals are the tests for agents. We give the agent a task, for example, and then we can check that it completed its execution correctly. And then we can also check things like: did it call this tool? Or did it create this output that we expected? For tasks that are not that obvious to evaluate, you can also spin up another agent in here that will read what the first agent did and evaluate if it succeeded or not on this task.

I usually use evals a lot also to ship libraries and documentation. Because when shipping a library that has a CLI, has a skill, and everything, I want to understand how AI agents will interact with my product or library. So what I can do is write tests — but instead of iterating on the agent, I iterate on the library, to make sure that agents understand my documentation well. And I can easily swap the models to see how different agents react to my documentation.

Eve also handles more advanced features. For example, tool approvals for sensitive actions. We can also configure context compaction. We can also do subagent workflows, which is: my main agent can define a pool of agents to do certain work, and it can trigger all of those and run them. Also extensions — let's say that I am creating a lot of agents, and I usually have a set of tools plus skills plus connections that I want to reuse in all of those agents. I can just pack all of that in an extension and just reuse it. And then schedules, for example, to run agents on a cron schedule. So maybe every couple of hours, go and inspect the logs and usage and analyze that, to make sense of it and create a report.

And also — we covered a lot of Vercel primitives, but we can also not use those Vercel primitives. For example, let's say that I want to create an agent that works fully offline. When I configure the agent, I can import Ollama as a model provider and just connect it with Ollama, so that I can run a local model, for example. Or I could even pay for the Ollama API and just use that instead of paying for the Gateway. And for sandboxes, for example, we can just plug in our own sandbox provider, or Docker if I just want to use that locally. Also, when we are configuring sandboxes, we can configure the network access of that, so that we can also block access to the internet.

So just to recap: a new agent is a folder. We can start with the instructions.md and the agent.ts for configuration. And then just add capabilities as files — tools for actions, skills for procedures, and connections for connecting to systems. It will discover those files and just wire them up with my agent.

The easiest way to get started with Eve is with the init command. It will scaffold a project so that you can start from there. Or you can also just add the skill to your coding agent, so that it can ship an agent with you.

Thank you. Thank you for inviting me. I'm happy to take questions, if there are any.
